"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

pair_style meam/spline :h3
pair_style meam/spline/omp :h3

[Syntax:]

pair_style meam/spline :pre

[Examples:]

pair_style meam/spline
pair_coeff * * Ti.meam.spline Ti
pair_coeff * * Ti.meam.spline Ti Ti Ti :pre

[Description:]

The {meam/spline} style computes pairwise interactions for metals
using a variant of modified embedded-atom method (MEAM) potentials
"(Lenosky)"_#Lenosky.  The total energy E is given by

:c,image(Eqs/pair_meam_spline.jpg)

where rho_i is the density at atom I, theta_jik is the angle between
atoms J, I, and K centered on atom I. The five functions Phi, U, rho,
f, and g are represented by cubic splines.

The cutoffs and the coefficients for these spline functions are listed
in a parameter file which is specified by the
"pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html command.  Parameter files for different
elements are included in the "potentials" directory of the LAMMPS
distribution and have a ".meam.spline" file suffix.  All of these
files are parameterized in terms of LAMMPS "metal units"_units.html.

Note that unlike for other potentials, cutoffs for spline-based MEAM
potentials are not set in the pair_style or pair_coeff command; they
are specified in the potential files themselves.

Unlike the EAM pair style, which retrieves the atomic mass from the
potential file, the spline-based MEAM potentials do not include mass
information; thus you need to use the "mass"_mass.html command to
specify it.

Only a single pair_coeff command is used with the {meam/spline} style
which specifies a potential file with parameters for all needed
elements.  These are mapped to LAMMPS atom types by specifying N
additional arguments after the filename in the pair_coeff command,
where N is the number of LAMMPS atom types:

filename
N element names = mapping of spline-based MEAM elements to atom types :ul

See the "pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html doc page for alternate ways
to specify the path for the potential file.

As an example, imagine the Ti.meam.spline file has values for Ti.  If
your LAMMPS simulation has 3 atoms types and they are all to be
treated with this potentials, you would use the following pair_coeff
command:

pair_coeff * * Ti.meam.spline Ti Ti Ti :pre

The 1st 2 arguments must be * * so as to span all LAMMPS atom types.
The three Ti arguments map LAMMPS atom types 1,2,3 to the Ti element
in the potential file.  If a mapping value is specified as NULL, the
mapping is not performed.  This can be used when a {meam/spline}
potential is used as part of the {hybrid} pair style.  The NULL values
are placeholders for atom types that will be used with other
potentials.

NOTE: The {meam/spline} style currently supports only single-element
MEAM potentials.  It may be extended for alloy systems in the future.

:line

Styles with a {cuda}, {gpu}, {intel}, {kk}, {omp}, or {opt} suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed in "Section_accelerate"_Section_accelerate.html
of the manual.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and
should produce the same results, except for round-off and precision
issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the USER-CUDA, GPU, USER-INTEL,
KOKKOS, USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the "Making
LAMMPS"_Section_start.html#start_3 section for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Section_start.html#start_7 when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can
use the "suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See "Section_accelerate"_Section_accelerate.html of the manual for
more instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.

:line

[Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info]:

The current version of this pair style does not support multiple
element types or mixing.  It has been designed for pure elements only.

This pair style does not support the "pair_modify"_pair_modify.html
shift, table, and tail options.

The {meam/spline} pair style does not write its information to "binary
restart files"_restart.html, since it is stored in an external
potential parameter file.  Thus, you need to re-specify the pair_style
and pair_coeff commands in an input script that reads a restart file.

The {meam/spline} pair style can only be used via the {pair} keyword of the
"run_style respa"_run_style.html command.  They do not support the
{inner}, {middle}, {outer} keywords.

:line

[Restrictions:]

This pair style requires the "newton"_newton.html setting to be "on"
for pair interactions.

This pair style is only enabled if LAMMPS was built with the USER-MISC
package.  See the "Making LAMMPS"_Section_start.html#start_3 section
for more info.

[Related commands:]

"pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html, "pair_style meam"_pair_meam.html

[Default:] none

:line

:link(Lenosky)
[(Lenosky)] Lenosky, Sadigh, Alonso, Bulatov, de la Rubia, Kim, Voter,
Kress, Modelling Simulation Materials Science Enginerring, 8, 825
(2000).
