"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

pair_style zero command :h3

[Syntax:]

pair_style zero cutoff :pre

zero = style name of this pair style
cutoff = global cutoff (distance units) :l

[Examples:]

pair_style zero
pair_coeff * *
pair_coeff 1 2 3.0 :pre

[Description:]

Define a global cutoff length for the purpose of building a neighbor
list and acquiring ghost atoms, but do not compute any pairwise forces
or energies.

This can be useful for fixes or computes which require a neighbor list
to enumerate pairs of atoms within some cutoff distance, but when
pairwise forces are not otherwise needed.  Examples are the "fix
bond/create"_fix_bond_create.html, "compute rdf"_compute_rdf.html,
"compute voronoi/atom"_compute_voronoi_atom.html commands.

Note that the "comm_modify cutoff"_comm_modify.html command can be
used to insure communication of ghost atoms even when a pair style is
not defined, but it will not trigger neighbor list generation.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atoms
types via the "pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html command as in the examples
above, or in the data file or restart files read by the
"read_data"_read_data.html or "read_restart"_read_restart.html
commands, or by mixing as described below:

cutoff (distance units) :ul

This coefficient is optional.  If not specified, the global cutoff
specified in the pair_style command is used.

:line

[Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info]:

The cutoff distance for this pair style can be mixed.  The default mix
value is {geometric}.  See the "pair_modify" command for details.

This pair style does not support the "pair_modify"_pair_modify.html
shift, table, and tail options.

This pair style writes its information to "binary restart
files"_restart.html, so pair_style and pair_coeff commands do not need
to be specified in an input script that reads a restart file.

This pair style can only be used via the {pair} keyword of the
"run_style respa"_run_style.html command.  It does not support the
{inner}, {middle}, {outer} keywords.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"pair_style none"_pair_none.html

[Default:] none

